.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Johnothan King. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd August 1, 2018
.Dt HALT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm halt
.Nd halt, poweroff or reboot
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm halt
.Op Fl fhlNnpqr?
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Halt
will poweroff, reboot or halt the system when executed. LeanInit's version of
.Nm halt
can also send the system into hibernate when executed as
.Nm zzz
on Linux.
.Pp
Halt accepts the following flags:
.Pp
.Nm -f, -q, --force
Cause halt to skip sending all processes SIGTERM and
SIGKILL before calling
.Nm reboot(2).
.Pp
.Nm -N, -n, --nosync
Do not synchronize the filesystems before rebooting.
LeanInit's variant of halt does not use
.Em RB_NOSYNC
with this flag (so
kernels such as the FreeBSD kernel will still run
.Nm sync(2)
anyways).
.Pp
.Nm -h, --halt
Halt, even if called as
.Nm poweroff
or
.Nm reboot.
.Pp
.Nm -l, --no-wall
Do not send a message using
.Nm syslog(3)
before rebooting
.Pp
.Nm -p, --poweroff
Power-off, even if called as
.Nm halt
or
.Nm reboot.
.Pp
.Nm -r, --reboot
Reboot, even if called as
.Nm halt
or
.Nm poweroff.
.Pp
.Nm -?, --help
Display usage information for LeanInit's implementation of
.Nm halt(8).
.Sh SEE ALSO
init(8)
.Sh AUTHOR
Johnothan King
