.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Johnothan King. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd August 2, 2018
.Dt RC 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rc
.Nd init script
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm rc
script is responsible for mounting all file systems, starting
.Nm LeanInit
services in
.Em /etc/leaninit/svce
quickly, and starting a
.Nm getty(8)
on all ttys listed in
.Em /etc/leaninit/ttys.
.Pp
.Nm RC
will start services using
.Nm setsid(1)
on Linux and
.Nm daemon(8)
on FreeBSD.
Like
.Nm lsvc(8),
.Nm rc
will start services by calling
.Nm svc-start(8).
.Nm RC
will log the output from booting the system to
.Em /var/log/leaninit.log
by default.
.Sh FILES
.Em /etc/leaninit/rc.api
Provides variables and functions to
.Nm rc

.Em /etc/leaninit/rc.conf
Config file for
.Nm rc
and
.Nm LeanInit
services

.Em /etc/leaninit/svc-start
Internal script which starts services

.Em /var/log/leaninit.log
Default log file for LeanInit
.Sh SEE ALSO
rc(8), rc.conf(5), rc.api(8), lttys(5), svc-start(8)
.Sh AUTHOR
Johnothan King
