.\" Copyright © 2018-2020 Johnothan King. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd May 15, 2020
.Dt TTYS 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Em /etc/leaninit/ttys
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Em /etc/leaninit/ttys
is the file the
.Nm LeanInit
reads from for the list of TTYs to launch
.Nm getty(8)
on.
Each line should consist of two arguments separated by the ':' delimiter.
The first argument is the command that LeanInit will run (this command
must specify the file path to
.Nm getty
as the
.Em $PATH
variable is not used).
The second argument should have the path to the TTY that the
.Nm getty
will run on.
The
.Nm ttys
file may have comments that start with '#', although
all comments must be placed on their own line.
The maximum size of this file is 8,000 bytes,
with the maximum number of lines being 60.
.Sh EXAMPLE
# This will cause
.Nm agetty(8)
to launch on /dev/console and /dev/tty4

 /sbin/agetty console 38400 linux:/dev/console
 /sbin/agetty tty4 38400 linux:/dev/tty4
.Sh SEE ALSO
leaninit(8), getty(8)
.Sh AUTHOR
Johnothan King
