.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Johnothan King. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd August 2, 2018
.Dt RC 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rc.conf
.Nd config file for
.Nm rc(8)
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Em /etc/leaninit.d/rc.conf
allows you to configure various settings, such as your hostname.
This file is used by the
.Nm rc.api(8)
script.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Em /etc/leaninit.d/rc.conf
allows you to change the following settings:

.Em HOSTNAME:
Changes the hostname using
.Nm hostname(1).
Commented out by default.

.Em KEYMAP:
Linux only setting that changes the keyboard layout. Commented out by default.

.Em ZFS_ENABLE:
Allows you to configure support for ZFS.
Enabled by default on FreeBSD, disabled by default on Linux.

.Em INTERFACE:
Sets the default networking interface used for services.
Set to wlan0 by default.

.Em XDMNAME:
Sets the name of the Display Manager used by the xdm service.

.Em DM:
Sets the executable for the Display Manager used by the xdm service.

.Em LOGFILE:
Sets the file LeanInit uses for logging. Set to
.Em /var/log/leaninit/leaninit.log
by default.

.Em GETTYMODE:
Sets the mode used when launching the
.Nm getty(8)
program.
Set to '38400' on Linux and 'Pc' on FreeBSD.
.Sh SEE ALSO
rc(8), rc.api(8), lttys(5)
.Sh AUTHOR
Johnothan King
