.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Johnothan King. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd August 2, 2018
.Dt LTTYS 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Em /etc/leaninit/ttys
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Em /etc/leaninit/ttys
is the file
.Nm rc(8)
reads from for two things:
.Pp
1. The
.Nm getty(8)
program that should be used.

2. The ttys to launch said getty on.
.Pp
The
.Nm ttys
file may have comments using '#', however,
all comments must be on their own line.
.Sh EXAMPLE
# This sets the getty program to /sbin/getty
 /sbin/getty
.Pp
# This will cause the getty program to be launched on /dev/console and /dev/tty2
 console
 tty2
.Sh SEE ALSO
rc(8)
.Sh AUTHOR
Johnothan King
