**Release v1.2.0 Changelog:**
* Added a brand new tool called os-indications(8) (this tool will only run on Linux). This tool will modify the OsIndications UEFI variable when it is run, allowing you to boot into the system firmware's UI with a simple reboot (alternatively, you can schedule an automatic boot into the firmware UI after a normal shutdown using this tool).
* Added a new init script function called isfunc(). This function will return 0 if the command given to it is a shell function. If the command is anything else (such as a shell builtin), or if it does not exist, isfunc will return 1.
* Various improvements have been made to the man pages:
    * Added information about /etc/rc.shutdown to the leaninit(8) man page.
    * Added more usage information for commands to the rc.svc(8) man page.
    * Removed the outdated log file path from rc(8)'s man page.
    * Slightly improved the formatting of the man pages.
    * Other minor improvements have been made to the man pages.
* The stall tool has been moved to the new ./tools directory.
* Reverted the following change from **v1.0.2**: The command `mv "$LOGFILE.2" "$LOGFILE.old.2"` in `rc(8)` is now seperated from the script using `&`.
* Made a slight optimization to file system mounting in rc(8).
* Fixed a bug that caused enabling a service to list shell builtins when /bin/bash is symlinked to /bin/sh.
* Replaced general usage of `command -v` in rc.svc(8) with `isfunc` to improve stability.
* Fixed two spelling errors of seperete -> separate.
* Fixed one spelling error of sufficent -> sufficient.
