.\" Copyright © 2018-2020 Johnothan King. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd May 22, 2020
.Dt LEANINIT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm leaninit
.Nd a fast init system
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm init [ 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | S | s | Q | q ]
.Nm init [ -s | single | silent | quiet silent ]
.Nm init [ --version | --help ]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm LeanInit
is a BSD-style init system developed for Linux, FreeBSD and NetBSD.
.Pp
When
.Nm LeanInit
is executed, it will detect if it is running as
.Nm PID
1.
.Pp
If it is
.Nm PID
1,
.Nm LeanInit
will open the console with a custom version of
.Nm login_tty(3)
then launch two threads, one to kill all zombie processes, the other to run
.Nm rc(8)
and
.Nm getty(8)
in multi-user mode or a shell of the user's choice in single user mode.
.Pp
If it is not
.Nm PID
1,
.Nm LeanInit
will instead read argv and do the following for each option:
.Pp
.Nm 0
Kill all processes then power off the system.

.Nm 1, S, s
Switch the runlevel to single user mode.

.Nm 2, 3, 4, 5
Switch the runlevel to multi-user mode.

.Nm 6
Kill all processes then reboot the system.

.Nm 7
Kill all processes then halt the system.

.Nm Q, q
Reload the current runlevel.

.Nm --version
Displays
.Nm LeanInit's
version number to the user.

.Nm --help
Displays
.Nm LeanInit's
usage information to the user.
.Pp
.Nm LeanInit
accepts the following arguments before booting:

.Nm -s, single
Start the system in single user mode.

.Nm silent
Enables Silent Mode, which turns off verbose output during boot.

.Nm quiet silent
Enables Silent Mode in addition to the quiet flag, completely removing all unwanted verbose output during boot.
.Sh SIGNALS
When
.Nm LeanInit
is sent a signal using
.Nm kill(1) ,
it will act as follows:

.Nm SIGHUP
Restart the current runlevel.

.Nm SIGTERM
Send the system into single user mode.

.Nm SIGILL
Send the system into multi-user mode.

.Nm SIGUSR1
Kill all processes then halt the system.

.Nm SIGUSR2
Kill all processes then power off the system.

.Nm SIGINT
Kill all processes then reboot the system.
.Sh OUTPUT
.Nm LeanInit
outputs text with the following color coding:

.Nm Cyan star and White text :
A generic message sent from one of
.Nm LeanInit's
binaries.

.Nm Purple star and White text :
A generic message that is not logged.

.Nm Blue star and White text :
A generic message that is logged.

.Nm Green star and White text :
A message that indicates a successful action.

.Nm Purple star and Yellow text :
A warning message.

.Nm Red star and Red text :
An error message.
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Em /etc/leaninit/rc
This is the primary init script run by
.Nm LeanInit .

.Em /etc/rc
Secondary init script that is run if
.Em /etc/leaninit/rc
does not exist.

.Em /etc/leaninit/rc.banner
Optional script that LeanInit will run before rc if passed the `banner` argument by the bootloader.

.Em /etc/leaninit/rc.conf
Provides config settings for
.Nm leaninit-rc
and
.Nm LeanInit
scripts.

.Em /etc/leaninit/rc.conf.d
This folder contains config files for service specific settings (such as xdm.conf for the
.Nm xdm
service).

.Em /etc/leaninit/rc.svc
Provides variables and functions for
.Nm LeanInit
scripts.

.Em /etc/leaninit/rc.shutdown
Stops all processes and unmounts
all file systems before reboot.

.Em /etc/rc.shutdown
Secondary shutdown script that is run if
.Em /etc/leaninit/rc.shutdown
does not exist.

.Em /etc/leaninit/svc
Folder containing scripts for starting various services (such as D-Bus).

.Em /var/lib/leaninit/svc
Location of all files used to determine which services are enabled.

.Em /var/lib/leaninit/types
Location of all files used to determine the different types each enabled service uses.

.Em /var/lib/leaninit/install-flag
This file is used by LeanInit when running `make install` to determine if the essential
services have been enabled at least once.
If this file exists, LeanInit will not make any changes to the enabled services when `make install` is run.
This file is useless if LeanInit is installed exclusively with a package manager,
and can be safely removed with `rm /var/lib/leaninit/install-flag` as this file is
only read by LeanInit's Makefile for `make install`.

.Em /etc/leaninit/ttys
LeanInit will read from this file for a list of TTYs to launch the specified getty on.

.Em /etc/ttys
Alternate file LeanInit will read from if
.Em /etc/leaninit/ttys
does not exist.

.Em /var/log/leaninit
The main directory for the log files of all services on the system.

.Em /var/run/leaninit
This is the default location for
.Nm LeanInit's
status and PID files.
#DEF NetBSD
.Sh BUGS
Switching runlevels with init usually does not work due to NetBSD lacking native support for runlevels.
If the user wishes to do any sort of runlevel change (such as to power off the system),
.Nm halt
should be used with the --force flag.
Should the user insist on executing init directly for switching runlevels, an inconsistent workaround is available.
Simply execute `kill -KILL 1` after telling init the desired runlevel, and about half of the time the runlevel will be changed successfully.
The other half of the time a kernel panic will occur due to a bug in the NetBSD kernel.
This is obviously not advised if you wish to maintain the data integrity of your file system.
#ENDEF
.Sh SEE ALSO
leaninit-halt(8), leaninit-rc(8), leaninit-rc.shutdown(8), leaninit-service(8), leaninit-rc.banner(8), leaninit-rc.svc(8), leaninit-rc.conf(5), leaninit-ttys(5), kill(1), signal(7)
.Sh AUTHOR
Johnothan King
