.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Johnothan King. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd August 8, 2018
.Dt SERVICE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm lservice
.Nd service manager for LeanInit
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm service service-name action
.Sh DESCRIPTION
LeanInit's service utility can do the following actions:

.Nm start
Start a service. Equivalent to '/etc/leaninit.d/svc.d/svcname start'.

.Nm stop
Stop a service. Equivalent to '/etc/leaninit.d/svc.d/svcname stop'.

.Nm restart
Restart a service, or start it if it isn't running.
Equivalent to '/etc/leaninit.d/svc.d/svcname restart'.

.Nm enable
Enable a service by creating a file for it in /etc/leaninit/svc.e.
Equivalent to '/etc/leaninit.d/svc.d/svcname enable' or 'touch /etc/leaninit.d/svc.e/svcname'.

.Nm disable
Disable a service by removing its file in /etc/leaninit/svc.d.
Equivalent to '/etc/leaninit.d/svc.d/svcname disable' or 'rm /etc/leaninit.d/svc.e/svcname'.

.Nm status
Show a service's current status.
Equivalent to '/etc/leaninit.d/svc.d/svcname status' or 'cat /var/run/leaninit/svcname.status'.

.Sh EXAMPLES
Enable D-Bus:
service dbus enable

Show the current status of ntpd:
service ntpd status

Restart the X Server:
service xdm restart
.Sh SEE ALSO
rc(8), rc.svc(8), svc-start(8), svc-stop(8)
.Sh AUTHOR
Johnothan King
