.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Johnothan King. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd August 2, 2018
.Dt LSVC 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm lsvc
.Nd service manager for LeanInit
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm lsvc [-defrqs?] service
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm LSvc
is the primary service manager for LeanInit.
.Pp
.Nm LSvc
starts, stops and restarts services using the
.Nm svc-start(8)
and
.Nm svc-stop(8)
scripts, and enables and disables services by creating and deleting
files in
.Em /etc/leaninit/svce
.Pp
.Nm LSvc
supports the following flags:
.Pp
.Nm -d, --disable
Disables
.Nm LeanInit
services by removing the service's hardlink in
.Em /etc/leaninit/svce
.Pp
.Nm -e, --enable
Enables
.Nm LeanInit
services by creating hardlinks in
.Em /etc/leaninit/svce
to the service's file in
.Em /etc/leaninit/svc
.Pp
.Nm -i, --info, --status
Displays the current status of the specified service.
.Pp
.Nm -f, --force
Allows --start to start services that aren't enabled and the
--stop and --restart flags to send services SIGKILL.
.Pp
.Nm -r, --restart
Restart the specified
.Nm LeanInit
service (or start it if it isn't running).
.Pp
.Nm -q, --stop
Stops the specified
.Nm LeanInit
service.
.Pp
.Nm -s, --start
Starts the specified
.Nm LeanInit
service.
.Pp
.Nm -?, --help
Display usage information for LSvc.
.Sh SEE ALSO
rc(8), rc.api(8), svc-start(8), svc-stop(8)
.Sh AUTHOR
Johnothan King
