.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Johnothan King. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd August 2, 2018
.Dt RC.API 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rc.api
.Nd provides functions and variables to LeanInit scripts
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm rc.api
script is responsible for reading
.Em /etc/leaninit.d/rc.conf,
then providing all required
variables and functions to LeanInit's various scripts, including
.Nm rc(8), rc.shutdown(8), svc-start(8)
and
.Nm svc-stop(8).
.Pp
.Nm RC.API
provides the following functions and variables:

.Em $PATH
.Nm rc.api
will set the path to
.Em /bin:/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin,
then source
.Em /etc/profile

.Nm print
This function prints formatted output to
.Em /dev/stdout
and
.Em /var/log/leaninit/leaninit.log  
$2 defines the * color and $3 defines the text color.

.Em $COLOR
.Nm rc.api
provides ANSI color and format variables, intended for use with
.Nm print().

.Nm waitforinit
This function allows scripts to have basic dependency management,
by letting them wait for the specified service to start first.
It will only run if
.Em $3
is set to init (which prevents this function from running when
manually starting services).

.Sh FILES
.Em /etc/leaninit.d/rc.conf
Provides config settings for
.Nm rc(8)
and
.Nm LeanInit
scripts.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Wait for D-Bus to launch:

waitforinit dbus dbus-daemon $1

Print colored output to
.Em /dev/tty:

print "General informative message..." ${BLUE} ${WHITE}

.Sh SEE ALSO
rc(8), rc.shutdown(8), rc.conf(5), svc-start(8), svc-stop(8), fork(1)
.Sh AUTHOR
Johnothan King
