.\" Copyright (c) 2018-2019 Johnothan King. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd June 8, 2019
.Dt RC.SVC 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rc.svc
.Nd provides functions and variables to
.Nm LeanInit
scripts
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm rc.svc
script is responsible for reading
.Em /etc/leaninit/rc.conf,
then providing all required
variables and functions to
.Nm LeanInit's
various scripts, including
.Nm rc(8), rc.shutdown(8)
and all scripts located in
.Em /etc/leaninit/svc


The following functions and variables are provided by
.Nm rc.svc:

.Em $PATH
.Nm rc.svc
will set the default path to
.Em /bin:/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin,
then load
.Em /etc/profile



.Em $__svcname
This variable provides services with their basename by running `$(basename "$0")`.



.Em $__svcpidfile
.Nm rc.svc
provides services with a preconfigured path for a PID file that may contain either one single PID or multiple PIDs.



.Em $__svcpid
This variable provides services with their PID(s) by running `$(cat $__svcpidfile)`.



.Nm exifex command [command args] ...

.Nm ExIfEx (Execute If Exists)
will execute the given command if it is valid, otherwise it silently returns zero.



.Nm isfunc command ...

This function will return 0 if the given command is a shell function, otherwise it will return 1.



.Nm print "msg" log_argument star_color [message_color] ...

This function prints formatted output to
.Em stdout.
If $2 is set to 'log', then the output from print will be logged to the log file.
$3 defines the ANSI color of at least the star and $4 (if set) defines the color of the text.

The following color variables (in bold form) are provided by
.Nm rc.svc:

.Em $RESET
Resets the text format (advised when using custom colors)

.Em $RED

.Em $BLUE

.Em $YELLOW

.Em $GREEN

.Em $PURPLE

.Em $CYAN

.Em $WHITE



.Nm fork command ...

This function will fork the command given to it and then write
the resulting PID(s) to
.Em $__svcpidfile.



.Nm waitfor type name [optional]...

This function allows scripts to have dependency management
by letting them wait for a specified 'type' before proceeding.
.Nm Waitfor
will wait for a maximum of seven seconds when called,
and will stop when the required condition is true.
If a full seven seconds have elapsed,
.Nm waitfor
will cause the running script to exit with a return status of one.

.Nm file
This type will wait for the specified file to be created.

.Nm process
This type will wait for the specified process to start. Appending 'return' as a third argument will cause waitfor to return an exit status rather than killing the script.

.Nm service
This type will wait for the specified service to start.
Appending 'optional' as a third argument will cause waitfor to simply return if the service does not exist.

.Nm other
Other types will cause waitfor to look for '/var/run/leaninit/TYPENAME.type', in a similar manner to the 'file' and 'service' types.
Appending 'optional' as a third argument will cause waitfor to simply return if the type does not exist.
.Sh FILES
.Em /etc/leaninit/rc.conf
Provides config settings for
.Nm rc(8)
and
.Nm LeanInit
scripts.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Wait for HALD to launch:

.Nm waitfor service hald


Wait for a networking service to launch:

.Nm waitfor networking


Print colored output with a blue star and white text to
.Em /dev/tty
and the log file:

.Nm print "General informative message..." log "$BLUE" "$WHITE"
.Sh SEE ALSO
rc(8), rc.shutdown(8), rc.conf(5), leaninit(8)
.Sh AUTHOR
Johnothan King
