.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Johnothan King. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd August 15, 2018
.Dt RUNGETTY 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rungetty
.Nd launch gettys with job control
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm rungetty ttypath 'getty' ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Rungetty
launches 'getty' on ttypath with job control. It is run by
.Nm rc(8)
after all services have been run.
.Nm Rungetty
will respawn the getty unless an error occurs.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Launch
.Nm agetty(8)
on tty8 (Linux):
rungetty /dev/tty8 "/sbin/agetty 38400 tty8"

Launch
.Nm getty(8)
on /dev/ttyv4 as a seperate process (FreeBSD):
rungetty /dev/ttyv4 "/usr/libexec/getty Pc ttyv4" &

.Sh SEE ALSO
getty(8), rc(8), lttys(5)
.Sh AUTHOR
Johnothan King
